Add refactoring-to-async skill (#269)
dotnet/skills: plugins/dotnet/skills/refactoring-to-async/SKILL.md

---
name: refactoring-to-async
description: >
  Convert synchronous .NET code to async/await, including proper Task propagation,
  cancellation support, and avoiding common async anti-patterns.
  USE FOR: converting blocking I/O calls (database, HTTP, file, stream) to async,
  fixing thread pool starvation from .Result/.Wait()/.GetAwaiter().GetResult(),
  modernizing sync-over-async code, adding CancellationToken support.
  DO NOT USE FOR: CPU-bound computation (use Parallel.For or Task.Run instead),

>   code with no I/O operations, parallelizing work rather than making it async.

Reviewer: The budget for skills descriptions is limited which is why they  are intended to be brief. This seems longer than I would expect for a skill.

    Task<List<User>> GetAllAsync(CancellationToken ct = default);
}
```

### Step 6: Build and fix

```bash
dotnet build
```

Common errors after async refactoring:

| Error | Fix |
|---|---|
| `CS4032`: `await` in non-async method | Add `async` to the method signature and return `Task` or `Task<T>` |
| `CS0029`: Cannot convert `Task<T>` to `T` | Add `await` before the call |
| `CS0127`: Method returns `Task` but body returns value | Change return type to `Task<T>` |
| `CS1998`: Async method lacks `await` | Remove `async` if no awaits are needed, or the method is genuinely sync |

### Step 7: Verify no anti-patterns remain

Search for remaining issues:

```bash
grep -rnE '\.Result\b|\.Wait\(\)|\.GetAwaiter\(\)\.GetResult\(\)' --include='*.cs' .
```

This should return zero results in the refactored code paths.

## Anti-Patterns to Avoid

| Anti-Pattern | Problem | Correct Approach |
|---|---|---|
| `task.Result` or `task.Wait()` | Blocks thread, risks deadlock | `await task` |
| `async void` methods | Exceptions crash the process | `async Task` (except event handlers) |
| `Task.Run` wrapping async I/O | Wastes a thread pool thread | Call async method directly |

> | Missing `ConfigureAwait(false)` in libraries | Can deadlock in UI/ASP.NET sync contexts | Add `.ConfigureAwait(false)` to every `await` in library code; omit in ASP.NET Core app code (no SynchronizationContext) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Missing `ConfigureAwait(false)` in libraries | Can deadlock in Winforms/WPF/ASP.NET sync contexts | Add `.ConfigureAwait(false)` to every `await` in library code; omit in ASP.NET Core app code (no SynchronizationContext) |
```

| Fire-and-forget without error handling | Swallows exceptions silently | `await` or use `_ = Task.Run(async () => { try... })` |

## Validation

- [ ] `dotnet build` compiles without errors
- [ ] No remaining `.Result`, `.Wait()`, or `.GetAwaiter().GetResult()` in converted code
- [ ] `CancellationToken` is propagated through the full call chain
- [ ] `dotnet test` passes (existing tests updated for async)
- [ ] No `async void` methods (except UI event handlers)

## Common Pitfalls

| Pitfall | Solution |
|---------|----------|
| Deadlock after conversion | Ensure `await` is used everywhere; no `.Result` mixed with `await` |
| Performance worse after conversion | Async adds overhead for CPU-bound work; only use for I/O |
| Forgetting to update tests | Test methods must return `Task` and use `await` |
| Breaking interface consumers | Consider keeping sync wrappers temporarily during staged migration |

> | `ValueTask` vs `Task` confusion | Use `Task` by default; `ValueTask` only for hot-path methods that frequently return synchronously |

Reviewer 2: There should be a bit more mention of `ValueTask` in the guidance higher up and its limitations over `Task`. Eg., cannot be awaited multiple times, cannot be stored.
